A shipwreck off the coast of Santa Carafea,  Southern California in 1874.  Among the ship’s cargo were native animals of Australia’s outback, ready to be displayed for the US first zoo in Philadelphia.  The crew tried to gather as many of the animals as they could but a few got away.    Our story begins as one of the possums, Brennen, awakes on the beach and realizes that it’s a life and death situation.  He calls out to the surrounding animals to follow him to a hiding place.  Willamina shouts out contrary orders confusing some of the animals.  It’s  another round of snatch and grab by the crew and when the dust settles only seven possums remain. They are Brenan Brushtail, Willow Willamina, Pygmy, Plaid, Sugar, Remmy Rodrick  and Gretel Gladis.
 The bunch heads off to the nearest town of Hang Town.  This is a town most inhabited by American Opossums though there is a sprinkle of diversity. In the local bar they run into the Rotten Cheese Wheel Gang. After a small skirmish they meet with Paco-Pico Pecos.  They explain that they need to go to Philadelphia to save their friends from the zoo.  Paco tells them that because of their actions that the Rotten Cheese Wheel gang would return to terrorize the town along with their boss; El Zorillo and his henchman Apestoso.  The bunch agrees to help the town get rid of El Zorillo and the cheese wheel gang. 
The local sheriff who is also Paco 's dad proclaims the bunch as his posse giving them authorization to arrest El Zorrillo for his crimes. 
Once El Zorrillo gets word of the sheriff's action he sends his gang to arrest him.  Because Brenen and Willamina can’t cooperate, the sheriff lands in jail.  The gang split up by gender.  Eventually all the gang ends up caught by El Zorrillo but Pacos helps them escape. Brenen and Willow agree to work together more efficiently as co-leaders.  They hatch a plan that ends with El Zorrillo behind bars and a grateful town proclaiming them as the Awesome Aussie Possum Posse. Pacos leaves with the gang heads into dawn as they travel east into the next adventure and towards Philadelphia.  Along the way, the posse learns that El Zorrillo and his gang won’t be the only problem they have to face .
